So to wrap up the
discussion, we're
going to go ahead
and talk about how
to avoid some common
program mistakes that arise
when you program with streams.
And I'll focus primarily
here on sequential streams.
And if we talk
about other things,
I'll probably defer that till
later, involving parallel
streams.
And in fact, the examples
we're going to talk about here
come from--
some of the examples come from
our search with sequential
streams case study we
were just looking at.
So one of the common
problems with streams
is to forget to put
the terminal operation
at the end of the stream.
And you can see, here's an
example where we get our input,
and then we go ahead
and create a stream.
And we think we're
going to map it
by calling the processInput
method reference,
and then we forget
to call collect.
And nothing happens.
And this is an all too
common beginner mistake.
I've done it myself
when I was first
starting out with streams.
So I am indeed the absent-minded
professor in that case.
Another mistake
people sometimes make
is trying to traverse a
stream more than once.
So you can only traverse
a given stream one time.
So here's an example where we
go ahead and create ourselves
a stream, and we call
it s just to give it
an intermediate variable value.
And then we say s.forEach
System.out::println.
And we say s.forEach
again, system.out::println.
Duplicate calls are invalid.
If you do this, you will get
a Java lang illegal state
exception, because you can't
call a terminal operation
from a stream more than once.
If you want to traverse
a stream again,
then you have to get a new
stream from the data source,
or from some data source.
So you can only do it one time.
Another very important
thing to remember
is don't try to modify the
backing collection of a stream
while it's being traversed.
So here's an example where
we're going to make ourselves
a list of 10 integers in
the range from 0 to 9.
So you can see we
say IntStream.range 0
through 10, which
means 0 through 9
because it's not inclusive.
If you want inclusive,
you'd say range closed.
We box the primitive integers
into integer reference objects.
We collect those into a list,
so we have a list of integers.
And then we go ahead and
make a stream of this thing
and call the peek method.
Peek is a method that's intended
just to look at the values,
maybe log them or print them,
but not modify them in any way.
Except what we're
doing with peek is
we're passing in the
remove method reference
from the list, which
we'll go ahead and remove
the item from the stream that
we're trying to iterate over.
And if a non-concurrent
collection
is modified while it's
being operated on,
the results will
be incredibly bad.
It'll be chaos and insanity.
And it gets even crazier if
you have a parallel stream.
What will happen in this case
is sort of undefined behavior,
but if you run this
example, as I do here,
you'll see that you get
some sensible results.
So you get a bunch
of nulls, and then
you finally get an exception and
the whole thing just blows up.
So the long and short of it
is do not try to do this.
Do not end up modifying the
backing collection of a stream
while you're operating
on the stream itself.
Also, always keep in mind that
a stream holds no non-transient
storage, which means
that if anything is--
if your program that
stream is running in
was to crash or hang or
whatnot, all the results
that were in the stream--
all the intermediate values
and so on-- would be lost.
If you don't like
this, then you need
to make sure you explicitly
persist these values using
some kind of database
create, read, write,
updater, or so-called
CRUD operations.
So you are responsible
for doing that.
Streams and the
streams framework
itself will not
automatically persist
the contents of the streams.
They're really meant
to be used in memory,
and used one time per
data source access.